Oh, that's wonderful.
Hey, Cyril must be a member here.
He's quite a book man.
A few castles, questions late.
Seems to be helpful.
It's difficult to keep up the trends off.
The reading section, the reading section.
a century ago, when it's been there.
And, erm, those bantles collapsed with the wake of me.
So, it was real, and, er, what is it she was saying?
Did it actually collapse?
No, it didn't.
But I mean, it was obviously weak and couldn't bear any more.
So, erm...
In that way, we're going to show how we call our Victorian pictures in the left at the wall.
Since we're behind, we're going to show those locations to see us, but we have a structure.
Wow.
Do you mind if I take a few photos?
Excuse me, they don't.
I love these shells.
Just wonderful.
Yeah, this is great.
It's wonderful.
I don't really care to move them much.
I'm sorry.
And these are accordions?
Yes, yes.
Yes, we have the accordions.
Of course, these are the larger ones, so they're, um... So, if I was... This is health.
Health is around there, yes.
But it could help, you know, it just moves from this.
Health, health, medicine and sanitary engineering, health resort, heat, herbs and herbal, hereditary, hockey, home, hops, horse, horseshoeing.
And some of these are very small indeed.
Human sacrifice.
But a lot of these subjects, hydrostatics and hydrodynamics, are things we don't cover, and didn't really reckon to cover in those days.
Hypnotism and hysteria, I think probably still have a following, as do immigration, inferiorism, and industries.
I think this is your book.
That's our standard book page, which was designed by Reynolds Stone in the early 50s.
and remain sort of timeless and definite.
Do you remove dust jackets from the book?
Do you describe them, or less, I guess?
We do.
There are several places collecting them, usually from the copyright libraries, the deposit libraries, which keep them in different ways.
Signed works of Scottish artists, I think, are kept by the National Knights of Scotland, but not others.
But the important thing is to be able to display our very distinctive labels, so that otherwise these get onto people's shelves.
Even if they work at home on a dining table, there's family Christmas dinner, it means the table has to be cleared.
They get on the shelves there, and that's sort of a simulation.
To remind people that it's not the impossible.
That's right.
Well, the Library of Congress, I was astonished until then, just removes dust jackets immediately, which is kind of surprising that the National Deposit Library would not be a full example of the text.
Would it be impactful for us?
Yes, indeed, yes.
I love the pink scheme, very nice.
Yes, yes, that was well thought out, well reasonable.
No photographs.
Yeah, I understand.
Otherwise, everybody would want to know.
Plus, I don't want any people who are recognizable either.
very much family stock dictionaries as I could be good as the reference books and the surroundings that have had the 19th century furniture and much of it is in very very full condition so we've been gradually refurbishing there
The old lighting system with those new enterprises wore out and we took advantage of it putting in low energy.
A lot of people haven't realized that that isn't original.
Well, you know, we get only the Times, and we get one to find, and we keep a month's time there.
And because of the CD-ROM, we get the Telegraph as well, and also the Times on CD-ROM.
It's got there for about ten years now, and there are several other things, Hansard, the Congressional Record,
is now taken only on compact disc.
And it's no inconvenience to research with anybody interested in modern part of military documentation can use a corporate machinery.
And...
There's nothing here.
This room is fully wider.
We've got our... We've got our...
Yes, it was extended on the stage.
The original came to where there was that film, I think.
And then there was more in that direction, and above as well.
Yes, they don't match.
I'm going to put it together with these also.
But we were in our own catalogue with a fairly wide range, a widening range of CDs.
Online access to resources.
Very difficult to know how to charge people for that.
and only a small minority of them would want to use advanced IT images, and are not efficient, and I think at present we know they can print off as much as they like with various kinds of trainings, etc.
It's a nice room.
When it first opened, people found it was totally fine, and came in.
The silence was even more silent.
And I don't know why these people come here in some typewriters, you know.
There's plenty of context.
I had to explain that this was the... This was actually in the Rumpus Room.
This was the Rumpus Room.
No, it doesn't, it's just the North Reading Room.
And then this is the Reading Room here.
There's one gentleman in the corner that looks like.
Okay.
What I was saying about us being the largest but the youngest of you.
It is.
It is now because when I first started, I spent a great deal of time on the building itself, and we've reached in the last six months got a facilities manager, and we deal with all the house administration.
It's everything from
the porter's uniforms and certain um weekly duty vouchers to whether we should repair or replace the lift so the main elevator is um
and we've actually got some very capable of taking decisions on that, or advice on what decisions can be taken.
So... So you don't have a good love with it.
It's busy here on a Monday morning.
Oh, this is a fairly low period, but it is busy.
It's a well-used life.
Yes, it is.
We are heavily used, I think, to go about the...
...the condition is mine.
This is not the Athenaeum.
Yes, and there's Carlisle.
He's a bit more close to genius now, because when we first came, he was still very dirty, and with the... With the bicentenary of his verse coming up,
two or three years ago, we were able to get him cleaned and repaired.
There had been bomb damage during the war.
Part of the reverse of his jacket had come off.
So we had it redone in fiberglass.
You can't tell the difference.
How much bomb damage was there here?
There was an incendiary bomb fell on one particular section.
and philosophy, because it went through a roof.
And this particular section was very much damaged.
It didn't have the art books in it at the time.
It was part of the 1930s extension.
It had to be rebuilt.
But there were lots of collections.
Yes, and we're still filling them.
I brought a colleague who has an encyclopedic memory, and who
He's still producing, every now and again, sets of Luther's works or something like that which we've never had since the bomb.
And he's immensely knowledgeable.
He worked here all his life and just knows what's missing and what needs reflating.
He's amazing because he can go around book fairs
Although he's got a computerized list, he never seems to look at it much.
He wouldn't come back with those white plastic bags they have at book fairs, and they never buy the duplicate books.
How old is this fellow?
Oh, he'll be about 45.
Oh, he's young.
So what did he get is consulted lists of materials that were lost?
Yes.
But it's unreturned books.
What do I call them?
misdemeanors of various kinds, felonious lots.
I suspect that's felonies.
Felonies have been worse, and that's one reason why we've now got a monitored entrance.
That's the, and people have to show their cards before they get in.
We had two sets of sets, one of colour plate books, whole books, and then one of plate slicer who came in.
in my time.
The other one was just before my time, I believe.
And it was the first thing I discovered when I got here, that these frightful thefts had taken place, and we're still sorting it out after the second one.
It was a man who had stolen a great many colour plates from the British Library as well.
It was some sort of rye consolation to us, but he had
They, with much more sophisticated invigilation and much more sophisticated admission procedures, he got in there as well.
I mean, he took a lot of our ghouls there to Great Britain.
But he was taking Thornton's Temple of the British Flora from that.
Although this was in their rare books, the amazing thing was these children
and David Roberts' holding hand, for example, which is printed on sort of a card all over, and it's brittle.
He managed to get these out intact.
You couldn't roll them, you could only fold them.
I think they were putting them in black, loose trousers and things like this.
How did they capture this fellow?
They got him on tape at the British Library.
Where he was sitting, he'd found the one place in the North Library, a gallery, behind a pillar.
So he was half disguised from him.
And then there was a tip-off from the British Library, just going around, a private front.
And that we found, yeah.
No, he wasn't.
How did he get in?
He joined.
He was apparently respectable for me in that way.
We've altered our admissions a bit.
And since then... It's hard to read it.
It is, yes, because he was knowledgeable about it.
He had to be, because he knew exactly what he wanted.
Look at the fellow at the Vatican.
I mean, the scholar from Columbus, Ohio.
Yes.
Poor Father Royal, honey.
Well, you know, we are always vulnerable.
And it meant that more of our books are going to be readable only under supervision.
We've got a special desk in our cataloging room.
We've only got one person in the reading room.
We don't have as a rare books room, you see, which would mean, you know,
It's much more spacious than I expected, I have to say.
I'm used to going into the drum rooms in the Athenaeum.
A little bit of everything, actually.
uh-huh
the key words, I know, this retrospective conversion.
We've been computerized since 1984 and then went on screen about five years ago.
Before then, the catalogue was
accumulated and printed off every six months.
It looked like books and people didn't realise quite what had happened.
84 to nearly 15 years, well over 12 years.
And it accounts for over a third of our issues.
So our most recent literature is most in demand.
This capital here goes from 1950 to 1984.
And...
We'll be covering well over a half of the book.
Are you going to keep this?
No.
I don't want to get into one of those Nicholson Baker discussions.
That's fine.
When that article came out, I was sent... I mean, it was a huge lot.
I've interviewed him.
Yes, I knew.
We were sent something like six copies of it from different members.
We get to New York, but in any case, you may be interested
The only gain of this was the Xerox Corporation, I think.
Yes, but it was threaded through with the usual New Yorker cartoons, the usual businessmen jumping off roofs, or shrinks with their certificates on the wall.
It went on and on and on, and we had many copies of it.
But the distinction here is that for the Americans, we've got nothing on the back.
We've got none of those traces that have been lost.
So something simple like that, the only quality we've got is a measurement.
We haven't even got a publisher today, etc.
It's very much a short term.
I don't see much artifactual value to them, actually.
There isn't.
And so, when these have been fully catalogued, using other external information, other databases, particularly of a consortium of university and research libraries we are affiliated to, called CURL, the main British,
lives Oxford, Cambridge, etc., and Manchester for representing universities.
With that, it means that we're going to have much fuller information on our screens, much easier to search, doing word searches, etc., and it's going to be a great improvement.
We still have a few members who have not accommodated themselves to the new environment.
This newfangled system means that I don't hold with that sort of thing.
And they're the losers because they can quite easily just use the shelves without realizing what stock we have, what we have in stock but might be on loan, which is much wider.
I love how big it is.
Yes, well, it's...
Thank you.